---
title: "Impacts of climate variability and change on crop yield in sub-Sahara Africa"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2017-12-13-pan_agu2017
venue: "AGU Fall Meeting 2017"
date: 2017-12-13
location: "New Orleans, Louisiana"
---

[More information here](https://agu.confex.com/agu/fm17/meetingapp.cgi/Paper/266990)

Much concern has been raised about the impacts of climate change and climate extremes on Africa&apos;s food security. The impact of climate change on Africa&apos;s agriculture is likely to be severe compared to other continents due to high rain-fed agricultural dependence, and limited ability to mitigate and adapt to climate change. In recent decades, warming in Africa is more pronounced and faster than the global average and this trend is likely to continue in the future. However, quantitative assessment on impacts of climate extremes and climate change on crop yield has not been well investigated yet. By using an improved agricultural module of the Dynamic Land Ecosystem Model (DLEM-AG2) driven by spatially-explicit information on land use, climate and other environmental changes, we have assessed impacts of historical climate variability and future climate change on food crop yield across the sub-Sahara Africa during1980-2016 and the rest of the 21st century (2017-2099). Our simulated results indicate that African crop yield in the past three decades shows an increasing trend primarily due to cropland expansion. However, crop yield shows substantially spatial and temporal variation due to inter-annual and inter-decadal climate variability and spatial heterogeneity of environmental drivers. Droughts have largely reduced crop yield in the most vulnerable regions of Sub-Sahara Africa. Future projections with DLEM-AG2 show that food crop production in Sub-Sahara Africa would be favored with limiting end-of-century warming to below 1.50 C.
